h1. OLAC FRBR Demo Application

h2. Introduction and Installation Instructions

This is a "OLAC":http://www.olacinc.org/drupal/ demo application that implements "Function Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR)":https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Functional_Requirements_for_Bibliographic_Records methodology.

A demo of this application can be seen here:http://blazing-sunset-24.heroku.com

It is based on code developed for the "Hydrangea":https://github.com/projecthydra/hydrangea, which is the reference implementation of the Hydra framework, which builds on "Blacklight":http://projectblacklight.org, "ActiveFedora":http://yourmediashelf.com/activefedora and "Ruby on Rails":http://rubyonrails.org

This document is based on the install process for the "Hydrangea":https://github.com/projecthydra/hydrangea project.

For a more thorough overview of the Hydra framework, see "HYDRA_OVERVIEW.textile":http://github.com/projecthydra/hydrangea/blob/master/HYDRA_OVERVIEW.textile

h3. Prerequisites

Hydrangea requires Ruby version 1.8.7.  It will not run on Ruby 1.8.6.  If you need to upgrade Ruby, consider using "RVM":http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/ to do so, especially in your development environment.

Other Requirements:
* "git":http://git-scm.com/
* "rubygems":http://rubygems.org/pages/download
* "bundler":http://gembundler.com/ (gem install bundler)

h3. Basic installation

This is based on Matt Zumwalt's "Hydra Stack: Getting Started":http://docs.google.com/View?id=ddrmhvjh_181gj9b7rcv notes from LibDevConX in March 2010.

Clone the git repository from github and pull the copy of jetty

<pre>
git clone https://github.com/cfitz/olac
cd olac
git submodule init
git submodule update
</pre>

This will pull all of the code.  The 'git submodule update' command is pulling a copy of hydra-jetty into the jetty directory within olac.

You are now in your working copy of hydrangea.  Use bundler to install the gem dependencies.

<pre>
bundle install
</pre>

Run your database migrations (only need to do this once after cloning the git repository).
<pre>
rake db:migrate
</pre>

Now run the bundled copy of Jetty, which has Fedora and Solr installed & configured to work with Hydra.  We have created rake tasks to make this easier.  For a full listing of rake tasks provided by Hydra, run 

<pre>
rake --describe hydra
</pre>

<pre>
rake hydra:jetty:load
</pre>

Import the demo application XML, which is an export of OLAC's FRBR FileMaker DB by running
These scripts will take the XML documents (located in the spec/fixtures directory) and index them into a Solr index running inside the jetty. The first script will also generate some text files in your system's /tmp directory which will be used by the second script to properly index the Work documents into Solr. 

<pre>
./lib/olac_item_solrizer.rb
 ./lib/olac_work_solrizer.rb
</pre>


Now run the rails lighttpd server

<pre>
script/server
</pre>

If all goes well, you will be able to see an empty copy of the application at http://localhost:3000

h3. Stopping the server when you're done

To stop the rails app, press ctl+c in the window where you ran script/server

To stop jetty, use the rake task
<pre>
  rake hydra:jetty:stop
</pre>

h2. Acknowledgements

h3. Design & Strategic Contributions

*Vision:* Kelley McGrath, University of Oregon</div>
*Programming and development*: Chris Fitzpatrick</div>

As mentioned, this is based on the Hydrangea project, which has included work by:

*Technical Lead:* Matt Zumwalt ("MediaShelf":http://yourmediashelf.com)
*User Interface & User Experience Designer:* Jennifer Vine

Contributing Developers on the Hydra project include:
Eddie Shin, Jessie Keck, Christopher Jesuderai, Jessie Keck, Naomi Dusay,  McClain Looney, Luke Francl, Dan Weinand, Ken Earley, Paul Wenzel, as well as the Project Blacklight community

Hydra Testers:
Charles Kerns, Bess Sadler, Richard Green, Tom Lauderman, Mark Matienzo

h3. Additional thanks

http://blazing-sunset-24.heroku.com/page/credits:http://blazing-sunset-24.heroku.com/page/credits




